W-14743783-self-upgrade (#198)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: cloudhub-2/modules/ROOT/pages/ch2-patch-updates.adoc

On average, this upgrade takes between thirty to sixty minutes to complete. If your upgrade is queued, it can take longer than thirty minutes. The impact of the upgrade process on running applications is consistent with the auto-patching behavior described in the previous sections.

[NOTE]
This upgrade is irreversible. Ensure that you understand the impact of the upgrade and choose when to trigger the upgrade based on your organization's needs before applying it in a production environment.

=== Apply the Opt-in Upgrade via Runtime Manager

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager* > *Private Spaces*.
+
If an upgrade is available for a private space, the *Upgrade Available* status appears under the *Infra Status* column.
. Click *Upgrade available*.
. Click *Upgrade now* and opt in to the early upgrade.
. Click *Upgrade*.

After applying the upgrade, you can check the status under the *Infra Status* column.

=== Schedule or Apply the Upgrade via API

> You can upgrade a private space using the Upgrade Private Space API. For more information, see the Upgrade Private Space API documentation in Exchange.

Reviewer: It would be easier for the reader if there were a link in the "Upgrade Private Space API documentation in Exchange" phrase.

Author: I don't have one yet :')  I have to publish without it.

To prevent this kind of error, use the Recreate update strategy.

[[self-upgrade-schedule]]
== Schedule Infrastructure Upgrades (Optional)

> Schedule infrastructure upgrades earlier than the scheduled patching process, between the Release Available and the Auto-Update dates stated in the xref:release-notes::cloudhub-2/cloudhub-2-runtimes-release-notes.adoc[monthly updates table]. This way, you can choose a date in the future that better suits your organization's needs.

Author: ```suggestion
Schedule infrastructure upgrades earlier than the scheduled patching process, between the Release Available and the Auto-Update dates stated in the xref:release-notes::cloudhub-2/cloudhub-2-runtimes-release-notes.adoc[monthly updates table]. This way, you can choose a date in the future that better suits your organization's needs.

On average, this upgrade takes between thirty to sixty minutes to complete. If your upgrade is queued, it can take longer than thirty minutes. The impact of the upgrade process on running applications is consistent with the auto-patching behavior described in the previous sections.

You can modify or delete your scheduled upgrade if it is not already in progress. If you cancel the schedule and do not create another or opt in to an earlier upgrade, the upgrade occurs during the mandatory patching window.
```

To prevent this kind of error, use the Recreate update strategy.

[[self-upgrade-schedule]]
== Schedule Infrastructure Upgrades (Optional)

Schedule infrastructure upgrades earlier than the scheduled patching process, between the Release Available and the Auto-Update dates stated in the xref:release-notes::cloudhub-2/cloudhub-2-runtimes-release-notes.adoc[monthly updates table]. This way, you can choose a date in the future that better suits your organization's needs.

On average, this upgrade takes between thirty to sixty minutes to complete. If your upgrade is queued, it can take longer than thirty minutes. The impact of the upgrade process on running applications is consistent with the auto-patching behavior described in the previous sections.

> You can modify or delete your scheduled upgrade if it is not already in progress. If you cancel the schedule and do not create another or opt in to an earlier upgrade, the upgrade occurs during the mandatory patching window.

Reviewer 2: It would be good to mention that if the status is 'Queued', then it's an indication that the upgrade has begun and is in progress.

Author: ```suggestion
You can modify or delete your scheduled upgrade if it is not already in progress, as indicated by the `Queued` status. If you cancel the schedule and do not create another or opt in to an earlier upgrade, the upgrade occurs during the mandatory patching window.
```

=== Schedule the Upgrade via Runtime Manager

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager* > *Private Spaces*.
+

> If an upgrade is available for a private space, a the *Upgrade Available* status appears under the *Infra Status* column.

Reviewer 2: Typo here, "the Upgrade Available", remove 'a'

Author: ```suggestion
If an upgrade is available for a private space, the *Upgrade Available* status appears under the *Infra Status* column.
```

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager* > *Private Spaces*.
+
If an upgrade is available for a private space, the *Upgrade Available* status appears under the *Infra Status* column.
. Click *Upgrade available*.

> . Select the checkbox to confirm that you agree to upgrade early.

Reviewer 2: In this case, they would have to select 'Upgrade now' radio button and then opt-in for an early upgrade.

Author: ```suggestion
. Click *Upgrade now* and opt in to the early upgrade.
```
